# Undergraduate Dissertation Overview

Over the past decade, the escalation in asylum caseloads in the United Kingdom (UK) has catalysed heated political debates over their asylum system and prompted questions regarding who is considered “deserving” or “undeserving” of protection. Despite a substantial rise in “text-as-data” research exploring the changes in public attitudes towards refugees using social media and news outlets, research has yet to systematically analyse politicians’ attitudes toward refugees using parliamentary debates. In recognising the contemporary significance of understanding the multifaceted nature of politicians’ opinions and policy positions, this dissertation aims to investigate the dynamics of Members of Parliament’s (MPs’) attitudes towards refugees using speeches in the House of Commons. The House of Commons offers MPs substantial autonomy to speak as they choose and dissent from conventional party ideologies, even if they vote in line with their party. This made parliamentary transcripts an effective textual source for obtaining insights into MPs’ attitudes towards refugees. 

Speeches were extracted from January 2015 to July 2023 justified by two notable political events: the 2015 Refugee Crisis in Europe and the enactment of the Illegal Migration Act on July 20th 2023. With this extensive collection of texts, computational tools are applied to make inferences about the three dynamics of MPs’ attitudes: 1) partisan dynamics, exploring the variation of rhetorical characteristics and positions both across and within political parties; 2) temporal dynamics, studying the trends in the prominence of expressed sentiments; and 3) categorical dynamics, investigating the variations in MPs’ attitudes towards different “types” of refugees. The study’s results offer fresh insights into the intricate dynamics of parliamentary dialogue on refugees, including the intra-party variations in policy positions, erratic events-driven fluctuations in expressions of “hostility” and “hospitality”, and substantial disparities in linguistic attitudes towards government-sanctioned refugees compared to asylum seekers crossing the English Channel. 

